---
layout: page
title: CSE 103 Introduction to Computer Engineering
description: 2024 Fall
img:
importance: 4
category: fun
---

## Course Overview

**CSE 103: Introduction to Computer Engineering** offers a comprehensive introduction to the fundamental principles of computer engineering. This course covers a variety of essential topics, including data storage and manipulation, operating systems, networking and the internet, and software engineering.

Additionally, the course provides an overview of database systems, computer graphics, and artificial intelligence. Students will gain a solid foundation in the various aspects of computer engineering and its relevance in today’s technology-driven world.

## Course Objectives

By the end of this course, students will be able to:

1. Recognize computer science and engineering as a distinct discipline.
2. Understand the fundamentals of computer hardware and software.
3. Comprehend basic digital logic circuits and Boolean algebra.
4. Explain how hardware and software interact within a computing system.
5. Identify various fields within computer engineering and the related problems addressed by computer systems.

## Prerequisites

None. This is an introductory-level course designed for first-year students or those new to computer engineering.

## Topics Covered

- **Introduction to Computer Systems**: Overview of modern computers, history, and evolution.
- **Data Storage and Manipulation**: Data Representation in Computers, Boolean algebra, Basic Logic Circuits
- **Computer Architecture and Operating Systems**: CPU, memory, I/O systems, and instruction sets, Operating Systems.
- **Introduction to Software**: Programming fundamentals, algorithms, and data structures.
- **Representative Computer Engineering Fields**: Data Management, Computer Graphics, Artificial Intelligence.

## Assessment

- **Midterm Exam (40%)**: A comprehensive exam covering the first half of the course.
- **Final Exam (60%)**: Cumulative assessment testing students' understanding of the entire course.

## Recommended Textbooks

- **"Computer Science: An Overview"** by J. Glenn Brookshear and Dennis Brylow.


## Instructor Information

**Professor:** Dr. Levent Karacan  
**Office Hours:** Wednesdays, 13:00 PM – 14:00 PM  
**Email:** lkaracan@gantep.edu.tr
**Office Location:** Room 23, Computer Engineering Department

## Schedule

| Week  | Topics                                 |Readings/Resources          |
|-------|----------------------------------------|----------------------------|
| 1     | Introduction      | [Lecture 1](#)              |
| 2     | Data Storage                   |                      |
| 3     | Data Manipulation  |               |
| 4     | Operating Systems                 |              |
| 5     | Networking and the Internet                  |               |
| 6     | Basic Algorithms                  |                     |
| 7     | Programming Languages          |                 |
| 8     | Software Engineering         |                 |
| 9     | Data Abstraction          |                 |
| 10     | Database Systems         |                |
| 11     | Computer Graphics          |                 |
| 12     | Artificial Intelligence           |                 |
| 13     | Artificial Intelligence          |                  |
| 14     | Advanced Topics         |                 |
| 15     | Final Exam         |                 |




_Last updated: {{ "now" | date: "%B %d, %Y" }}_